Hi everyone, my name is Daniel, I'm a software engineer at Posit, and today I'm going to
talk about what is new in the Torch ecosystem.
But first, what exactly is Torch?
So Torch is a port of PyTorch for R, and it's essentially a scientific computing library
providing a consistent API for computing on arrays and matrices, but it has strong support
for hardware acceleration, so you can run these computations on your GPU to make them
much faster.
And it also has support for a built-in automatic differentiation system in the package, so
it can be used for statistical and deep learning modeling.
It is also a deep learning framework, so it implements most of the building blocks of
modern deep learning models, such as layers and optimizers.
But Torch is a big project, and just like a big city, it's hard to find your way around
it when you are getting started, and we hope this is much better now because we recently
announced the Deep Learning and Scientific Computing with R Torch book.
This book was written by Sigrid K. Dana, my colleague at Posit, and it is available for
free online, or you can buy it from CRCpress, and it covers the basics of deep learning
as well as really implementing the models in Torch and R.
But still, navigating in large cities is hard, and it's much easier if you have the metro,
and that's what Luce is for Torch.
So Luce abstracts away much of the boilerplate code that you need to write when training
deep learning models with Torch, and its API is inspired by Fast.ai and Keras, which are
successful libraries in Python, and so it's still very flexible and extensible with callbacks,
metrics, and et cetera.
So with Luce, you write your model exactly the same way you would write when using raw
Torch, but instead of manually handling a lot of details, such as moving the model to
the correct device or manually iterating over your data, you let Luce do everything for
you.
So your code is cleaner, and it's also much less error prone.
But sometimes you don't want to learn all the details and everything, and you can pick
a taxi, and that's what TabNet and Brule help in Torch.
They are actually just tidy models extensions powered by Torch that you can call with single
liners like this to train neural network models on tabular data, and they can also be used
in your usual tidy models workflows and vet deployments and et cetera.
And finally, it's nice to talk with the local community.
So we recently announced hugging face integrations.
So we have the Torch package and the HF hub.
With HF hub, you can download large models hosted in the hugging face hub.
For example, if you were in Jeremy Howard's talk where he downloaded a llama model into
Python, you can do this in R using HF hub and then load the model weights into R. And
Torch can be used to use the exact same preprocessing pipelines as they use when training
the model.
So you get the exact same result.
So in theory, you can run these models directly in R without even having a Python
installation.
And thank you very much.
Next week, we'll be teaching Torch in the workshops for Ukraine project.
And it's a nice opportunity if you want to learn more about Torch and get started.
Thank you.